.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii procctrl.1
.\"
.TH PROCCTRL 1 "MAY 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
procctrl \- Process spawning and control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "procctrl [-d " "path" "] [-h " "mode" "] [-K] [-k " "identifier" "] [-P " "pid" "] [-p] [-v] " "operation command [...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B procctrl
can be used to start a process, and later stop it, by referencing it
symbolically instead of by process id. Additionally, a "parent" process can
be monitored and the spawned process killed when that parent terminates.

This is typically used for integration test harnesses using, for example,
Maven or Ant. If a server process required for the test can be started using
this utility then it will be killed whenever the parent build/test process
terminates. This avoids the problem of rogue processes remaining after failed
or aborted builds/tests.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d path"
Use a specific directory for process tracking information. If omitted the
default
.I ~/.procctrl
directory is used.
.IP "-h mode"
Specify the housekeeping mode - whether to delete files from the tracking
directory. Possible values are 0 (no actions), 1 (clean up before), 2 (clean
up after), 3 (clean up before and after operation).
.IP -K
Use a global process identifier (
.B -k
) symbol within the tracking folder instead of one scoped within the parent
process identifier. This can be used for sharing a spawned process among
concurrent build/test operations.
.IP "-k identifier"
Specify the symbolic process name. If omitted the default name is based on the
command and parameters.
.IP "-P pid"
Override the parent process identifier (pid). If omitted the parent identifier
used will be the pid of the process that launched
.B procctrl
.IP -p
Watch the parent process and kill the spawned process if the parent
terminates.
.IP -v
Verbose mode, writing out debugging information to stdout.
.IP operation
The action to perform, possible values are
.I start
,
.I stop
and 
.I query
.IP "command [...]"
The command to run. When used with the
.I start
action this will be spawned. When used with the
.I stop
or
.I query
actions this will be used to identify the process unless a symbolic identifier
has been specified with
.B -k
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Ian William Griffin <griffin@beerdragon.co.uk>
